README.md, before:


# Pyro Freelancers Corps (PFC) Quartermaster Bot

A powerful Discord bot built for the **Pyro Freelancers Corps**, designed to manage trading data, user interactions, and event logging for **Star Citizen** players.

## 🚀 Features

- ✅ Slash command support
- ✅ Dynamic command registration
- ✅ Sequelize ORM integration
- ✅ Event-driven architecture (reaction adds/removes, message updates, etc.)
- ✅ Log file creation & Discord log channel syncing
- ✅ Handles guild member updates & role assignments
- ✅ Modular design for scalability
- ✅ `/loglookup` command with user lookup and event dropdown (admin only)
- ✅ `/apitoken` command to generate a JWT for API testing (admin only)

## 🛠️ Installation

Clone the repo:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/revathiest/PFC_Quartermaster.git
cd PFC_Quartermaster
```

Install dependencies and run tests:
> **Note:** The bot requires **Node.js 22.13.1**, as specified in `package.json`.
> Using other versions may lead to unexpected issues.

Install dependencies:

```bash
npm install
```

Run the full setup (install + tests):

```bash
npm run setup
```

The `setup` script runs `npm ci` to ensure a clean install and executes the test
suite. Running `npm install` separately is unnecessary.

## 🛠️ Configuration

Create a `config.json` file in the project root with the following structure:

```json
{
  "token": "your-discord-bot-token",
  "guildId": "your-discord-guild-id",
  "clientId": "your-discord-client-id",
  "SCAPIkey": "your-star-citizen-api-key",
  "botPermsReq": "2147483648",
  "bot_type": "Development",
  "wallOfFameChannelId": "your-wall-of-fame-channel-id"
}
```

> ⚠️ **Important:** This file contains sensitive information.  
> Be sure to **add `config.json` to `.gitignore`** to avoid committing it.

Each field is required:

- `token`: Your Discord bot token
- `guildId`: ID of the Discord server where the bot operates
- `clientId`: Your bot's Discord client ID
- `SCAPIkey`: API key for external services (e.g. Star Citizen)
- `botPermsReq`: Bot permissions integer (default `2147483648`)
- `bot_type`: `"Development"` or `"Production"`
- `wallOfFameChannelId`: Channel ID for special logging/events

Create a `databaseConfig.json` file in the project root for database settings.  
`config/database.js` loads this file based on the `bot_type` value (`development` or `production`).  
A minimal example is:

```json
{
  "development": {
    "host": "localhost",
    "database": "pfc_db",
    "username": "db_user",
    "password": "db_pass",
    "dialect": "postgres",
    "logging": false
  }
}
```

> ⚠️ **Important:** This file contains sensitive information.  
> Be sure to **add `databaseConfig.json` to `.gitignore`** to avoid committing it.

Fields include:
- `host`: Database host address
- `database`: Database name
- `username`: Database user
- `password`: Password for the database user
- `dialect`: Sequelize dialect (`postgres`, `mysql`, `sqlite`, etc.)
- `logging`: `true` to log SQL queries, `false` to disable

## 🌐 Environment Variables

The bot also relies on several environment variables. The project uses
[dotenv](https://github.com/motdotla/dotenv) to load a `.env` file in the
project root, or you can export them in your shell before running the bot.

- `BOT_TYPE` - Selects the runtime environment for the database and other
  settings. Defaults to `development` if not provided.
- `OPENAI_API_KEY` - API key used for OpenAI requests.
- `OPENAI_MODEL` - Model name to use when calling the OpenAI API.
- `JWT_SECRET` - Secret used to sign API tokens.
- `DISCORD_CLIENT_ID` - OAuth2 client ID for Discord login.
- `DISCORD_CLIENT_SECRET` - OAuth2 client secret for Discord login.
- `GOOGLE_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_FILE` - Path to your service account JSON key for Google Drive access.

## 🔑 Obtaining an API Token

1. Redirect the user to Discord's OAuth2 authorization page using your client ID.
2. After the user approves, Discord will redirect back with a `code` parameter.
3. Send a `POST` request to `/api/login` with `{ "code": "<code>", "redirectUri": "<your redirect>" }`.
4. The API exchanges the code for the user's Discord info and returns a JWT signed with `JWT_SECRET`. Tokens expire after **30 minutes**.
5. Use this token in the `Authorization: Bearer` header when calling protected `/api/*` endpoints.

## 🌐 Integrating Discord Login on a Website

1. Ensure `DISCORD_CLIENT_ID`, `DISCORD_CLIENT_SECRET`, and `JWT_SECRET` are set in your environment.
2. Add a login link on your site that points to:
   `https://discord.com/api/oauth2/authorize?client_id=<CLIENT_ID>&redirect_uri=<REDIRECT>&response_type=code&scope=identify`.
3. After Discord redirects back to `<REDIRECT>` with a `?code=...` parameter, POST that code to `/api/login` with `{ code, redirectUri: '<REDIRECT>' }`.
   ```js
   // Example using fetch()
   fetch('https://api.pyrofreelancercorps.com/api/login', {
     method: 'POST',
     headers: { 'Content-Type': 'application/json' },
     body: JSON.stringify({ code, redirectUri: '<REDIRECT>' })
   })
     .then(res => res.json())
     .then(({ token }) => localStorage.setItem('pfcToken', token));
   ```
4. Store the returned JWT (e.g. in `localStorage`) and include it in an `Authorization: Bearer` header when calling any `/api/*` routes. Tokens expire after **30 minutes**, so be prepared to re-authenticate. If the API responds with `{ error: 'Missing token' }`, verify the header is set or that you're using `POST /api/login` rather than `GET`.
5. Optionally decode the JWT on the client to display the user's Discord username.

## 🗄️ Google Drive Setup

1. Create a service account in the Google Cloud console and enable the **Drive API**.
2. Download the JSON key file for that service account.
3. Save the file somewhere safe, e.g. `google-service-account.json`, and add the filename to `.gitignore`.
4. Set the environment variable `GOOGLE_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_FILE` to the path of this JSON file.
5. The bot will use these credentials to authenticate when accessing Google Drive.

## 🏃‍♂️ Usage

Run the bot:

```bash
node bot.js
```

For development with auto-reload:

```bash
node bot.js
```

Restart the command after each change, or use a tool like `nodemon` to
watch your files and automatically restart the bot during development.

## 📂 Project Structure

| Path | Purpose |
|------|---------|
| bot.js | Main bot entrypoint |
| /botactions/ | Event handlers and bot actions |
| /commands/ | Slash command modules |
| /components/ | UI components for Discord responses |
| /jobs/ | Background job logic (no scheduling) |
| /models/ | Sequelize models |
| /config/ | Configuration and database setup |
| /utils/ | Shared utility modules |
| /__tests__/ | Jest test suites |
| /__mocks__/ | Mock data for tests |

## 📖 API Documentation

API endpoints are documented using the OpenAPI specification. After running the tests or starting the server, `api/swagger.json` is regenerated automatically. To view the interactive documentation, start the API and visit [`/api/docs`](http://localhost:8003/api/docs).
Since the API is secured with JWTs, obtain a token via `POST /api/login` and click **Authorize** in the Swagger UI to enter `Bearer <token>` for testing. Tokens expire after **30 minutes**.
The API now includes a `/api/commands` endpoint that lists all registered slash commands and `/api/command/{commandName}` for details about a specific command. The command names in the response are returned without the leading `/`.

## 🧪 Testing

Testing is configured with **Jest**. Run:

```bash
npm test
```

## 🤝 Contributing

Pull requests welcome! Please adhere to conventional commits and write tests for any new features.

## 📜 License

This project is licensed under the **ISC License**.

---

Built with ❤️ by Kenneth Hart

Commit message:

populate accolades and officers into the database

README.md, after:


# Pyro Freelancers Corps (PFC) Quartermaster Bot

A powerful Discord bot built for the **Pyro Freelancers Corps**, designed to manage trading data, user interactions, and event logging for **Star Citizen** players.

## 🚀 Features

- ✅ Slash command support
- ✅ Dynamic command registration
- ✅ Sequelize ORM integration
- ✅ Event-driven architecture (reaction adds/removes, message updates, etc.)
- ✅ Log file creation & Discord log channel syncing
- ✅ Handles guild member updates & role assignments
- ✅ Modular design for scalability
- ✅ `/loglookup` command with user lookup and event dropdown (admin only)
- ✅ `/apitoken` command to generate a JWT for API testing (admin only)

## 🛠️ Installation

Clone the repo:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/revathiest/PFC_Quartermaster.git
cd PFC_Quartermaster
```

Install dependencies and run tests:
> **Note:** The bot requires **Node.js 22.13.1**, as specified in `package.json`.
> Using other versions may lead to unexpected issues.

Install dependencies:

```bash
npm install
```

Run the full setup (install + tests):

```bash
npm run setup
```

The `setup` script runs `npm ci` to ensure a clean install and executes the test
suite. Running `npm install` separately is unnecessary.

## 🛠️ Configuration

Create a `config.json` file in the project root with the following structure:

```json
{
  "token": "your-discord-bot-token",
  "guildId": "your-discord-guild-id",
  "clientId": "your-discord-client-id",
  "SCAPIkey": "your-star-citizen-api-key",
  "botPermsReq": "2147483648",
  "bot_type": "Development",
  "wallOfFameChannelId": "your-wall-of-fame-channel-id"
}
```

> ⚠️ **Important:** This file contains sensitive information.  
> Be sure to **add `config.json` to `.gitignore`** to avoid committing it.

Each field is required:

- `token`: Your Discord bot token
- `guildId`: ID of the Discord server where the bot operates
- `clientId`: Your bot's Discord client ID
- `SCAPIkey`: API key for external services (e.g. Star Citizen)
- `botPermsReq`: Bot permissions integer (default `2147483648`)
- `bot_type`: `"Development"` or `"Production"`
- `wallOfFameChannelId`: Channel ID for special logging/events

Create a `databaseConfig.json` file in the project root for database settings.  
`config/database.js` loads this file based on the `bot_type` value (`development` or `production`).  
A minimal example is:

```json
{
  "development": {
    "host": "localhost",
    "database": "pfc_db",
    "username": "db_user",
    "password": "db_pass",
    "dialect": "postgres",
    "logging": false
  }
}
```

> ⚠️ **Important:** This file contains sensitive information.  
> Be sure to **add `databaseConfig.json` to `.gitignore`** to avoid committing it.

Fields include:
- `host`: Database host address
- `database`: Database name
- `username`: Database user
- `password`: Password for the database user
- `dialect`: Sequelize dialect (`postgres`, `mysql`, `sqlite`, etc.)
- `logging`: `true` to log SQL queries, `false` to disable

## 🌐 Environment Variables

The bot also relies on several environment variables. The project uses
[dotenv](https://github.com/motdotla/dotenv) to load a `.env` file in the
project root, or you can export them in your shell before running the bot.

- `BOT_TYPE` - Selects the runtime environment for the database and other
  settings. Defaults to `development` if not provided.
- `OPENAI_API_KEY` - API key used for OpenAI requests.
- `OPENAI_MODEL` - Model name to use when calling the OpenAI API.
- `JWT_SECRET` - Secret used to sign API tokens.
- `DISCORD_CLIENT_ID` - OAuth2 client ID for Discord login.
- `DISCORD_CLIENT_SECRET` - OAuth2 client secret for Discord login.
- `GOOGLE_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_FILE` - Path to your service account JSON key for Google Drive access.

## 🔑 Obtaining an API Token

1. Redirect the user to Discord's OAuth2 authorization page using your client ID.
2. After the user approves, Discord will redirect back with a `code` parameter.
3. Send a `POST` request to `/api/login` with `{ "code": "<code>", "redirectUri": "<your redirect>" }`.
4. The API exchanges the code for the user's Discord info and returns a JWT signed with `JWT_SECRET`. Tokens expire after **30 minutes**.
5. Use this token in the `Authorization: Bearer` header when calling protected `/api/*` endpoints.

## 🌐 Integrating Discord Login on a Website

1. Ensure `DISCORD_CLIENT_ID`, `DISCORD_CLIENT_SECRET`, and `JWT_SECRET` are set in your environment.
2. Add a login link on your site that points to:
   `https://discord.com/api/oauth2/authorize?client_id=<CLIENT_ID>&redirect_uri=<REDIRECT>&response_type=code&scope=identify`.
3. After Discord redirects back to `<REDIRECT>` with a `?code=...` parameter, POST that code to `/api/login` with `{ code, redirectUri: '<REDIRECT>' }`.
   ```js
   // Example using fetch()
   fetch('https://api.pyrofreelancercorps.com/api/login', {
     method: 'POST',
     headers: { 'Content-Type': 'application/json' },
     body: JSON.stringify({ code, redirectUri: '<REDIRECT>' })
   })
     .then(res => res.json())
     .then(({ token }) => localStorage.setItem('pfcToken', token));
   ```
4. Store the returned JWT (e.g. in `localStorage`) and include it in an `Authorization: Bearer` header when calling any `/api/*` routes. Tokens expire after **30 minutes**, so be prepared to re-authenticate. If the API responds with `{ error: 'Missing token' }`, verify the header is set or that you're using `POST /api/login` rather than `GET`.
5. Optionally decode the JWT on the client to display the user's Discord username.

## 🗄️ Google Drive Setup

1. Create a service account in the Google Cloud console and enable the **Drive API**.
2. Download the JSON key file for that service account.
3. Save the file somewhere safe, e.g. `google-service-account.json`, and add the filename to `.gitignore`.
4. Set the environment variable `GOOGLE_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_FILE` to the path of this JSON file.
5. The bot will use these credentials to authenticate when accessing Google Drive.

## 🏃‍♂️ Usage

Run the bot:

```bash
node bot.js
```

### Manually refreshing cached guild data

The `/api/accolades` and `/api/officers` endpoints read from cached tables populated by the Discord bot. The snapshot job runs automatically a few seconds after the bot starts, but you can trigger it on demand (for example, right after deploying new code) with:

```bash
npm run snapshot
```

This command logs in using your configured bot token, fetches the current guild members/roles once, updates the cache tables, and exits.

For development with auto-reload:

```bash
node bot.js
```

Restart the command after each change, or use a tool like `nodemon` to
watch your files and automatically restart the bot during development.

## 📂 Project Structure

| Path | Purpose |
|------|---------|
| bot.js | Main bot entrypoint |
| /botactions/ | Event handlers and bot actions |
| /commands/ | Slash command modules |
| /components/ | UI components for Discord responses |
| /jobs/ | Background job logic (no scheduling) |
| /models/ | Sequelize models |
| /config/ | Configuration and database setup |
| /utils/ | Shared utility modules |
| /__tests__/ | Jest test suites |
| /__mocks__/ | Mock data for tests |

## 📖 API Documentation

API endpoints are documented using the OpenAPI specification. After running the tests or starting the server, `api/swagger.json` is regenerated automatically. To view the interactive documentation, start the API and visit [`/api/docs`](http://localhost:8003/api/docs).
Since the API is secured with JWTs, obtain a token via `POST /api/login` and click **Authorize** in the Swagger UI to enter `Bearer <token>` for testing. Tokens expire after **30 minutes**.
The API now includes a `/api/commands` endpoint that lists all registered slash commands and `/api/command/{commandName}` for details about a specific command. The command names in the response are returned without the leading `/`.

## 🧪 Testing

Testing is configured with **Jest**. Run:

```bash
npm test
```

## 🤝 Contributing

Pull requests welcome! Please adhere to conventional commits and write tests for any new features.

## 📜 License

This project is licensed under the **ISC License**.

---

Built with ❤️ by Kenneth Hart
